By the end of this episode, you will
know exactly how you can blow up your
business and go viral using just one
Instagram post and one Instagram
strategy. And in order to teach you this
strategy, I'm going to tell you the
story of Diane, one of our Insta Club
students. Diane was excited to grow her
business on Instagram, probably exactly
how you feel. She specifically was an
authorized Disney travel agent, and of
course, she was obsessed with all things
Disney and helping people plan their
magical vacations. Step number one for
growing on Instagram is having a clear
niche. And Diane had that. She knew
exactly what she was going to be posting
about. All of her posts were going to be
helpful tips, valuable lessons, quick
news about Disney, and not just any
Disney resorts, specifically Disney
World in Orlando, Florida. Number two,
because she's in the Insta Club, Diane
has optimized her profile. She has an
attention-grabbing profile picture. She
has searchable keywords embedded into
her bio. Speaking of her bio, it clearly
tells us what she does and why we should
follow her. She has pinned posts that
relate to her niche and help her
business move along. In terms of the
content she was posting, she was posting
a healthy mix of reals and carousels.
She wasn't being lazy or uncreative and
only posting one kind of content. She
was diversifying her posts and
experimenting with different strategies.
And probably like a lot of people
listening to today's episode, she was
posting a lot of valuable content, a lot
of helpful tips, dos and don'ts, things
to avoid, things that you have to try,
different tips and recommendations for
planning your Disney World vacation. And
she was posting every single day. I bet
there's a lot of people listening today
who can't say that, who might say that
that's their goal, but who can't in good
faith say that they have posted every
single day. Diane did. I say all this to
say she was doing theoretically
everything right. There are a few
mistakes that we're going to talk about.
There are a few things that she could
have changed, but for all intents and
purposes, she was getting a passing
grade. She was probably getting an A
grade on her Instagram. She was checking
off all the boxes. But after posting
more than 1,000 times to her Instagram
feed, she had gained less than 2500
followers. She felt like quitting. She
felt like giving up. She felt burnt out.
She felt like she was banging her head
against the wall. Again, I'm sure those
are things that you have probably
experienced yourself. From my expert
point of view, she had done pretty much
everything right, but she just wasn't
seeing the results that she was looking
for. But then in early November 2025,
she woke up one morning to her phone
blowing up with Instagram notifications.
She didn't even realize that she had her
Instagram notifications turned on until
she looked over at her phone and saw
hundreds upon hundreds of little tiny
Instagram notification badges. She
opened her Instagram and the little
notification bar in the upper right said
100 100 100 likes, 100 comments and 100
new followers. She was finally blowing
up. She had finally struck gold. Let me
tell you how. Like I said, she did this
with just one Instagram post and one
Instagram strategy. Apart of that, there
are four key elements that I want to
highlight for you right now. Number one,
the kind of post was a trial reel. Trial
reels are something that I've done
numerous episodes about in the past. I
will link up an episode right now on the
screen and in the show notes about what
are trial reels and my complete guide to
using them and making the most out of
them. But in short, a trial reel is a
kind of reel that is only shown to
nonfollowers. So it has zero potential
to annoy your existing followers, zero
potential to overwhelm or lead to an
unfollow from one of your existing
followers. And it can only reach new
people. It can only help you grow. It's
like zero downside, 100% upside. The
only downside is, I guess, the time that
it would take you to create one of these
trial reels. But besides that, you're
like a baseball player who can have
unlimited swings without striking out.
The second key element is that her trial
reel didn't just have a good hook. It
had a curiositydriven hook. This is a
kind of hook that makes people lean
forward and it spikes retention. It
makes people want to stick around and
keep watching the video to find out what
happens next or find out what happens in
the end. The specific curiosity hook
that Diane used was one that I have
talked about here on this podcast before
that I have posted about and that I have
given detailed tutorials for inside the
Insta Club and it's what I'm going to
call the measuring tape reel. is
essentially a reel where yes, there's a
measuring tape extended on the ground
and it's extended to the point that the
message that is written on the far end
of the measuring tape is out of focus.
It's not able to be read. At the
beginning of the reel, you essentially
walk up, you point at the unreadable
message, and then you run over to the
camera, which is actually running over
to the front of the measuring tape, and
you unlock that little lever, or you
make it so that the tape measurer kind
of retracts really quickly. And what
that does is it brings the message
closer to the screen, thus bringing it
into focus and thus allowing people to
actually read it. This is something
that's pretty easily understood. Even a
drunk grandma or a fifth grader, which
are the two people who I usually
recommend making your reels simple
enough that they can understand, those
two groups of people can both understand
that, hey, there's something about to
happen, right? The tape measurer is
reeling in and there's a reason to stick
around to see what that hidden message
is going to say. So, that is the first
kind of curiosity hook that you can use.
The second kind of curiosity hook that
I'm going to give you as an example
today is what I'm going to call the rope
pull hook. Now, I want you to be safe
and I'm going to play a few examples
here on the screen. You need to be safe
with this one. I don't want any
liability, and I'm not encouraging you
to do anything dangerous. Please consult
your local fire department. I don't know
what I'm saying here, but just with the
rope pull reel, essentially you're going
to tie a rope around a chair, around
your neck, or around your body,
whatever. Then you're going to have it
trail onto the ground. Then you're going
to have a second rope. Please cut the
rope. Don't make it just one long rope.
Cut the rope. The second rope is going
to be coiled up on top of the first rope
and it's going to be tied to a horse or
a car or a motorcycle or your dog or
something that would theoretically pull
you if it was moving really fast in the
other direction. The Paul brothers have
done this. I have done this. There are
so many people who have used this hook
because again, whether you're a fifth
grader or a drunk grandma, when you see
something speeding away and it is tied
to the person who's standing here
talking to the camera, it grabs
attention. It's like, "Oh my gosh, is he
going to get yanked?" And of course, we
know the person probably isn't going to
get yanked. But we still want to stick
around to see how things end, to see how
things turn out. And then the third and
final curiosity hook is another really
popular one that I'll put on the screen
and it's what I'm going to call the box
throw reel. This one also requires a
second person just like the rope pull
reel, but essentially you have someone
throw a box or a ball or throw something
at your head and then you have the video
cut right before it hits your head and
then you say something like, "I bet
you're waiting for that to hit me. I bet
you're waiting for that ball to hit me."
Something like that. And then you can
continue talking about whatever it is
you want to talk about. Some people have
kind of made parodies of this trend
where it cuts and then they say, "I bet
you're waiting for that to hit me." And
then it does hit them and then maybe it
keeps hitting them. You can definitely
have fun and get creative with this. But
again, all three of these hooks are not
just strong hooks. These are hooks that
grab curiosity and they make you want to
keep watching because there's some sort
of action that's going to happen. But
ultimately, even the best hook is only
going to get people to watch, but it's
not going to get them to act. what Diane
did, which is what I'm going to
recommend for you, is the third key
element, which is that she has gified
engagement. That message that Diane had
written on the end of the measuring
tape. And the message that I had written
on the end of my measuring tape started
a game. It started kind of like a little
puzzle or a clue game. In my example, it
told people, "Don't look in the upper
right corner." And then guess what? When
they looked in the upper right corner,
it said, "Don't read the last line of
the caption." And then when they read
the last line of the caption, it said,
"Don't read the pinned comment." So,
it's kind of fun. It's interactive. It
feels like a puzzle. Unlike most
Instagram reels and most social media
content where it's just scrolling
through people talking to you and
yapping the entire time, there was a
hidden message. There was something that
you kind of felt like you got to go on a
treasure hunt to reveal. Engaging with
my reel or with Diane's reel felt like a
game. It didn't just feel like you were
liking something. Which, by the way, if
you're enjoying today's episode, don't
forget to hit that like button because
it helps me reach more people and
continue to grow this podcast. We are so
close to 100K and I'm so flipping
excited. So, I'm going to do a giveaway.
When we hit 100K, I'm going to pick
three people randomly, three people who
like and comment on today's episode to
win a free coaching call with me. So,
again, all you have to do to get entered
in to win is go to our YouTube channel,
make sure that you're watching this
video on YouTube, hit that thumbs up
button below the video, and then
comment. comment something. Hopefully,
it's something thoughtful. Hopefully,
it's something kind. Hopefully, it's not
like, "Brock sucks. His beard is ugly.
Why does he look like a knockoff Mac
Miller? But if you comment and you like
this video, I'll enter you in to win.
When we hit 100K, I'll randomly select
three people from the comment section on
this video." Are you ready to take your
business marketing to the next level?
Meet Brevo, the all-in-one marketing and
CRM platform built to help you connect
with customers, boost engagement, and
grow your business smarter. With Brevo,
you can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM. Reach your
audience through email and SMS. And keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to help you
improve your strategy in real time. It's
like having a marketing expert on your
team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers
advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AIdriven
personalization. Everything you need to
create multi-channel campaigns that hit
the mark every single time. Get started
for free today or use code tribe 50 to
save 50% on starter and standard plans
for the first 3 months of the annual
subscription. Just head to
www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Ora. Back to the whole blowing
up your business overnight thing. Those
first three things that we have talked
about are all one Instagram post, right?
It's a trial reel with a curiositydriven
hook and gamified engagement. But now,
let's talk about the strategy. The
strategy that's actually going to take
this viral post into something that's
going to help your business into
something that helped me blow up my
business into something that helped
Diane blow up her business. The final
piece of the post is you want to have a
call to action that has DM automation.
Now, many of you are familiar with DM
automation. I've done entire episodes on
it in the past. We'll make sure to link
that up if you need more details, but
essentially DM automation is that thing
where creators will say, "Comment the
word guide and I'll send you my free
cooking guide. Comment the word coach
and I'll send you the link to my
one-on-one coaching packages. Comment
ticket and I will send you the link."
That is DM automation. Or I should say
the thing that's automatically sending
you the message when you comment that
keyword. That is DM automation. We've
talked about that before. But what many
people don't realize is that you can put
DM automation onto trial reels as long
as you're using a tool like ManyHat.
Manyhat is the DM automation tool that I
recommend. It's the most widely used.
It's the most popular. It's the most
trusted. It's the only DM automation
tool that is an official partner of
Meta. But there's this really cool
advanced feature within many chat that
is called next post or reel. Next post
or reel is something that most people
use when they want to apply an
automation to their next post or reel.
But if the next thing that you post on
your Instagram after enabling that
setting is a trial reel, then the
automation will be applied to the trial
reel. So now you have all of these new
eyeballs. You have all of this new
attention. You have all of these new
people who do not follow you, who are
seeing your post for the first time, and
they're not just engaging or maybe
following. They're actually becoming
leads. They're actually giving you their
email. They're actually signing up for
your freebie or your email marketing
newsletter or whatever it may be. In my
version of this reel, when people read
the pinned comment, it said, "Oh my
gosh, you're such a rule breaker. You
never follow the rules. Whatever you do,
do not comment the word pineapple." And
then for anyone who made it to the final
stage of the game, for anyone who
commented the word pineapple, they
received an instant DM automation from
me with a lead magnet for our business.
From this one post, I had 45,000
people comment the word pineapple. And
from that, I had over 13% of those
people, which is quite a high
click-through rate, over 6,000 people
become leads for our business. But hey,
that was just on my account. And if I
was a social media expert who had only
ever grown their own account, I wouldn't
be a very trustworthy social media
expert. I believe that a huge part of my
credibility is our students growth. I
believe a huge part of my credibility is
that our average Insta Club member gains
over 15,000 followers in their first
year. I believe that a huge part of my
credibility is what Diane was able to
do. Diane had 2500 followers when this
post was made. And she gained 7,000
followers from this one singular post.
And because of this post, the engagement
on all of her following posts blew up.
She went from getting 10 to 15 likes and
0 to three comments to getting hundreds
of likes and dozens of comments on every
single post. which shows that many of
these followers who found her through
this trial reel, they became engaged
followers, loyal subscribers. Pretty
flipping cool. All is great, right?
Well, not necessarily, because there's a
part of this story that I haven't told
you. There's an unfortunate truth that I
have been withholding from you until
now, and that is that going viral
doesn't equal business success. It can.
going viral can definitely lead to more
leads, more customers, more followers
who become customers down the line, but
it's not a guarantee because while Diane
did get a bunch of followers and she did
get a boost of engagement and she did
get quite a few leads from this post,
she unfortunately also got a lot of
trolls, she got a lot of haters, she got
a lot of people who were filling out her
lead magnet and who were requesting to
book their next Disney vacation with
her, but they were just being silly.
They were just wasting her time. they
were just messing around and they
weren't serious leads. And
unfortunately, this is often times what
happens when you go viral. You might end
up on the wrong side of Instagram. You
might end up with a bunch of viewers who
are less than ideal. And while I do
believe that this entire thing was a net
positive for Diane, she has more
followers, more engagement, and she does
have more leads now than in the past, it
might not have been as explosive as you
might have predicted if you just saw
that one post and how many views and how
much engagement it received. Something
that I'm trying not to do in 2026 is to
use the term small business. Because
let's be real, there's nothing small
about the business that you are
building. The number of different hats
that you have to wear is not small. The
decisions that you have to make on a
daily basis are not small. And the
impact that you're making on yourself,
your family, your customers, and
possibly the entire world is not small
either. And for so many business owners,
the number of different platforms that
you have to learn to use is also not
small. But thanks to Shopify, it can be
because Shopify is the e-commerce
platform that has all the tools you need
in one place. Because Shopify itself
used to be a quote unquote small
business. Shopify's point of sales
system is a unified command center for
your retail business. It brings together
in-person and online operations with up
to 1,000 locations, which makes your
customers lives easier by making
shopping convenient. Endless aisle, ship
to customer, buy online, pick up in
store, all made simpler so that
customers can shop the way they want and
staff has tools to close the sale every
time. But let's face it, acquiring new
customers is expensive. With Shopify
POS, you can keep customers coming back
with personalized experiences and
first-party data, which gives your
marketing team a competitive edge. In
fact, it's proven, and you know, I love
me some numbers. Based on a report from
EY, businesses on Shopify POSOS see real
results like 22% better total cost of
ownership and benefits equivalent to an
8.9% uplift in sales on average relative
to the market set surveyed. Get all of
the big stuff for your small business
right with Shopify. Sign up for your $1
per month trial and start selling on
Shopify today at shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
Again, that's shopify.com/tribe.
So, now that you know the entire
picture, let's take a step back and I
want to share with you my four key
takeaways, four key lessons to learn
from Dian's story. Number one, you never
know when you're just one post away.
Diane was posting every single day. She
had over 1,000 posts and she felt like
she was banging her head against the
wall. You never know when you're one
post, one trial reel, one story, one
little moment of creativity away from
blowing up your business, from gaining a
bunch of followers, a bunch of leads,
and a bunch of customers. Lesson number
two is something that I've been saying
since December of 2024, which is that
trial reels are a great way to reach
non-followers. But the bigger lesson to
take away from this is that trial reels
with a curiositydriven hook, gamified
engagement, and a DM automation call to
action. That's like a powder keg. That
is a ticking time bomb ready to explode.
That's just not a good way to reach new
followers. That is a great way to reach
new followers, grow, and do all those
things. Lesson number three is so
important and it's something that I've
been saying for a while and I'm probably
never going to stop saying, but it's
that you shouldn't want to go viral. You
shouldn't chase virality. Virality can
be a great thing. Going viral, getting a
million views, it can be really cool and
it can be really rewarding, but chasing
virality should not be your goal. And
when I talk about this, I kind of feel
like a fitness coach who is preaching
against uh magic diet pills. The reality
is there will always be a market and
there will probably always be a majority
of people who want the quick fix, who
want the overnight success, who want to
blow up and go viral. And it's much
tougher to convince people that no,
actually you don't. It's actually much
more beneficial to have slow and steady
consistent growth, which by the way,
next week's episode, which is coming out
just a few days after this one comes
out, is going to be an a toz guide for
growing your following on Instagram in
2026. So, if you haven't subscribed
already, please hit that subscribe
button. That's going to be a super
valuable, super long episode, but again,
super super valuable. And that's going
to be about slow and steady growth,
sustained growth that is actually going
to build your business and isn't going
to rely on a couple viral hits. And then
the fourth and final lesson from today's
episode is that if a post is going viral
and it's on the wrong side of Instagram,
it's reaching the wrong followers, it's
reaching people who are not ideal, you
have my permission to archive it. When
my post ended up reaching the level of
virality that it was reaching a bunch of
teenagers and non ideal, non-niche
followers, I removed the DM automation
trigger. I stopped letting people
trigger the automation. I turned off the
comments on the post. So, I still got
the views, but I was no longer getting
any fake leads for my business from that
post. Diane archived her post entirely,
which I think is valid. She was getting
such an overwhelming amount of people
who were trolling her and who were
filling out her forms to uh request her
travel booking and her Disney vacation
help uh that was ultimately just filling
up her time and it was really weighing
on her psyche that this many people were
kind of just laughing or trolling her.
And so if you have a post that goes mega
viral and it starts reaching the wrong
side of Instagram, it starts bringing in
leads or followers who are less than
ideal, you have my permission to turn
off the comments or archive the post or
even delete it altogether. Give this a
try for yourself. If it works for you,
please shoot me a DM because I would
love to hear your success story and
maybe tell your story on a future Build
Your Tribe episode. And don't forget to
like and comment on today's video to
enter in to win that one-on-one coaching
call once we hit 100K. Thank you so much
for being here and as always happy
networking.